
1.0 Overview
Password Goon’s Password Policy
Passwords are an important aspect of computer security. A poorly chosen password may result in unauthorized access and/or exploitation of Password Goon's resources. All users, including contractors and vendors with access to Password Goon’s systems, are responsible for taking the appropriate steps, as outlined below, to select and secure their passwords.
2.0 Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to establish a standard for creation of strong passwords, the protection of those passwords, and the frequency of change.
3.0 Scope
The scope of this policy includes all personnel who have or are responsible for an account (or any form of access that supports or requires a password) on any system that resides at any Password Goon facility, has access to the Password Goon network, or stores any nonpublic Password Goon information.
4.0 Policy 4.1 General
●	All production system-level passwords must be part of the Password Goon administered global password management database. (Linked List)
●	All user-level passwords (e.g., email, web, desktop computer, etc.) must be changed at least every six months.
●	User accounts that have system-level privileges granted through group memberships or programs such as "sudo" must have a unique password from all other accounts held by that user.
●	All user-level and system-level passwords must conform to the guidelines described below.
4.2 Guidelines
A. General Password Construction Guidelines
All users at Password Goons should be aware of how to select strong passwords.
Strong passwords have the following characteristics:
• Must Contain Atleast -
o Two uppercase letters [A-Z]
o Two lowercase letters [a-z]
o Two digits [0-9]
o Two special characters only [@#$&*]
• Contain at least fourteen alphanumeric characters.
Weak passwords have the following characteristics:
●	The password contains less fourteen characters
●	Reused in the last four passwords
●	Does not differ from the changed password by at least four characters
o A password cannot contain your network account name, username or display name

Try to create passwords that can be easily remembered. One way to do this is create a password based on a song title, affirmation, or other phrase. For example, the phrase might be: "This May Be One Way To Remember" and the password could be: "TmB1w2R!" or "Tmb1W>r~" or some other variation.
(NOTE: Do not use either of these examples as passwords!)
B. Password Protection Standards
●	Always use different passwords for Password Goons accounts from other non-Password Goons access (e.g., personal ISP account, option trading, benefits, etc.).
●	Always use different passwords for various Password Goons access needs whenever possible. For example, select one password for systems that use directory services (i.e. LDAP, Active Directory, etc.) for authentication and another for locally authenticated access.
●	Do not share Password Goons passwords with anyone, including administrative assistants or secretaries. All passwords are to be treated as sensitive, confidential Password Goons information.
●	Passwords should never be written down 
●	Do not reveal a password in email, chat, or other electronic communication.
●	Do not speak about a password in front of others.
●	Do not hint at the format of a password (e.g., "my family name")
●	Do not reveal a password on questionnaires or security forms
●	If someone demands a password, refer them to this document and direct them to the Information
Security Department.
●	Always decline the use of the "Remember Password" feature of applications (e.g., Eudora,
OutLook, Netscape Messenger).
If an account or password compromise is suspected, report the incident to the Information Security Department.
C. Application Development Standards
Application developers must ensure their programs contain the following security precautions. Applications:
●	Shall support authentication of individual users, not groups.
●	Shall store password in linked list but not appear in plain text on program.
D. Use of Passwords and Passphrases for Remote Access Users
Access to the Password Goons Networks via remote access is to be controlled using the Password Goon.py program.
E. Passphrases
Passphrases are generally used for public/private key authentication. A public/private key system defines a mathematical relationship between the public key that is known by all, and the private key, that is known only to the user. Without the passphrase to "unlock" the private key, the user cannot gain access.
A passphrase is not required to access the Password Goons Program but is essential to learn about.
Passphrases are not the same as passwords. A passphrase is a longer version of a password and is, therefore, more secure. A passphrase is typically composed of multiple words. Because of this, a passphrase is more secure against "dictionary attacks."
A good passphrase is relatively long and contains a combination of upper and lowercase letters and numeric and punctuation characters. An example of a good passphrase:
"The*?#>*@TrafficOnThe101Was*&#!#ThisMorning"
All of the rules above that apply to passwords apply to passphrases.
5.0 Enforcement
Any employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Password cracking or guessing may be performed on a periodic or random basis by the Information Security Department or its delegates. If a password is guessed or cracked during these exercises, the user/owner will be required to change it.
6.0 Terms and Definitions
Term Definition
Application Administration Account - Any account that is for the administration of an application (e.g., Oracle database administrator, ISSU administrator).
7.0 Revision History
• Jonathan Baker - 11/23/21
